---
title: Podling Teaclave Report - July 2020
date: 2020-06-29
author: Mingshen Sun
---

## Teaclave

Teaclave is a universal secure computing platform, making computation
on privacy-sensitive data safe and simple.

Teaclave has been incubating since 2019-08-20.

### Three most important unfinished issues to address before graduating:

 1. Improve project structure and documentation
 2. Grow the community (attracting more committers, contributors, users)
 3. Publish Apache releases (resolving logistics on Apache release)

### Are there any issues that the IPMC or ASF Board need to be aware of?

No.

### How has the community developed since the last report?

Since the last report, we started to reach out to people using the
project and collect suggestions and encourage them to join in the
community. We have found four organizations and eight projects that
are using either the Teaclave platform and Teaclave's Rust SGX SDK.

We also created a website for the project:
https://teaclave.apache.org/, which contains project description,
community, contributors, documentations and blog posts.

We started a thread to discuss the logo design, but haven't received
any proposal for now. We will drive this issue in the next few weeks.

We observed more people posting feature suggestions and
build/deployment issues. More than five new contributors begin to
contribute bug fixes and introduce new examples.

We started preparing the first Apache release such as logistics on
licenses of third-party libraries.

### How has the project developed since the last report?

Since the last report, we have completed the development roadmap
towards the first public release
(https://github.com/apache/incubator-teaclave/issues/121) proposed
last year. We began to put more efforts on improving documents and
building community.

We wrote many documents in recent weeks including:

 - Try: Tutorials on using the Teaclave platform.
 - Design: Some explanations of design choices we made.
 - Contribute: Documents on contributing to Teaclave, such as
debugging tips and Rust development guideline.
 - Codebase: Documents for each sub-directory (i.e., libraries in Teaclave).
 - API Docs: Generated API documentations like APIs of Client SDK.

We also provided more examples to help beginners to understand the
basic usages of the projects.

### How would you assess the podling's maturity?

 - [ ] Initial setup
 - [x] Working towards first release
 - [x] Community building
 - [ ] Nearing graduation
 - [ ] Other:

### Date of last release:

N/A

### When were the last committers or PPMC members elected?

We haven't started new committers or PPMC members elections yet.
Currently, our work focuses on improving the documents to make the
project more approachable for newcomers. Additionally, we see some
regular contributors recently mainly focus on helping to improve
examples, SDK, etc.

### Have your mentors been helpful and responsive?

Yes, our mentors help us with the website development and logo design.
Also, our mentors provided valuable thoughts regarding Intel's recent
security issues.

### Is the PPMC managing the podling's brand / trademarks?

We don't find any 3rd parties incorrectly using the podling's name and
brand. The VP, Brand has approved the project name.
(PODLINGNAMESEARCH-175)
